# mirror-operator

An OpenShift operator that automates oc-mirror v2 bundle building and airgap import via Tekton Pipelines.

This operator is an implementation component of the [OCP Disconnected Pipeline reference architecture](https://github.com/mathianasj/ocp-disco-pipeline-arch). It consumes the ImageSetConfiguration YAML generated by [openshift-airgap-architect](https://github.com/bstrauss84/openshift-airgap-architect.git) to drive the mirror bundle lifecycle.

## Description

The mirror-operator provides Kubernetes Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs) for automating disconnected OpenShift workflows:

- **DisconnectedPlatform**: Orchestrates the complete connected/airgapped lifecycle
- **CollectionPipeline**: Automates collection of OCP releases, operators, and container images
- **MirrorImport**: Handles import of bundles into airgapped registries
- **ClusterBootstrap**: Provisions new OpenShift clusters from mirrored content

## Documentation

- **[CRD Reference](docs/crd-reference.md)** - Complete API documentation for all Custom Resources
- **[Integration Guide](docs/integration-guide.md)** - How to integrate mirror-operator with your tools and workflows
- **[Reference Architecture](docs/reference-architecture-mapping.md)** - System design and architecture mapping

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- go version v1.22.0+
- docker version 17.03+.
- kubectl version v1.11.3+.
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

### To Deploy on the cluster
**Build and push your image to the location specified by `IMG`:**

```sh
make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/mirror-operator:tag
```

**NOTE:** This image ought to be published in the personal registry you specified.
And it is required to have access to pull the image from the working environment.
Make sure you have the proper permission to the registry if the above commands don’t work.

**Install the CRDs into the cluster:**

```sh
make install
```

**Deploy the Manager to the cluster with the image specified by `IMG`:**

```sh
make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/mirror-operator:tag
```

> **NOTE**: If you encounter RBAC errors, you may need to grant yourself cluster-admin
privileges or be logged in as admin.

**Create instances of your solution**
You can apply the samples (examples) from the config/sample:

```sh
kubectl apply -k config/samples/
```

>**NOTE**: Ensure that the samples has default values to test it out.

### To Uninstall
**Delete the instances (CRs) from the cluster:**

```sh
kubectl delete -k config/samples/
```

**Delete the APIs(CRDs) from the cluster:**

```sh
make uninstall
```

**UnDeploy the controller from the cluster:**

```sh
make undeploy
```

## Project Distribution

Following are the steps to build the installer and distribute this project to users.

1. Build the installer for the image built and published in the registry:

```sh
make build-installer IMG=<some-registry>/mirror-operator:tag
```

NOTE: The makefile target mentioned above generates an 'install.yaml'
file in the dist directory. This file contains all the resources built
with Kustomize, which are necessary to install this project without
its dependencies.

2. Using the installer

Users can just run kubectl apply -f <URL for YAML BUNDLE> to install the project, i.e.:

```sh
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/<org>/mirror-operator/<tag or branch>/dist/install.yaml
```

## Contributing
// TODO(user): Add detailed information on how you would like others to contribute to this project

**NOTE:** Run `make help` for more information on all potential `make` targets

More information can be found via the [Kubebuilder Documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/introduction.html)

## License

Copyright 2026.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

